UDACITY Project: Unscramble Computer Science Problems

TASK 0:
Accessing an item in a list via an index happens in constant time O(1).
Time Complexity : O(1)
Space Complexity : O(t + c) – Space required to store t texts and c calls in memory.

TASK 1: 
In other to get the total unique number of telephones numbers I used a set which prevented having duplicate phone numbers which was loaded by looping over t texts and c calls giving a big O of O(t + c) for loading the set and accessing the number of unique phone numbers(length of set) is constant time O(1). Hence the big O of task 1 is O(t + c).
Time Complexity : O(t + c)
Space Complexity : O(t + c) – Space required to store t texts and c calls in memory. Although other items were store in memory for easy computation in comparison with the text and call list they appear insignificant.

TASK 2:
In other to get the phone number that spent the longest time I looped through n calls and populated a dictionary with each unique phone number and the total time it spent on making and receiving calls. As a result of looping through the entire list the big O of task 2 is O(n). Although I used
the max function which also has a big O(d) where d is the lenght of the dictionary in my solution, in the scheme of things d is less than n.
Time Complexity : O(n)
Space Complexity : O(t + c) – Space required to store t texts and c calls in memory. Although other items were store in memory for easy computation in comparison with the text and call list they appear insignificant.

TASK 3 :
In other to create a unique list of area code called by residents of Bangalore, I looped through the entire call list of n calls which gives a big O of O(n). However sorting the resulting list(using the builtin sorted method) in order to display it in lexicographic order is an operation with a big O of O(nlogn).
Hence the big O of task 3 is O(nlogn).
Time Complexity : O(nlogn)
Space Complexity : O(t + c) – Space required to store t texts and c calls in memory. Although other items were store in memory for easy computation in comparison with the text and call list they appear insignificant.

Task 4: 
In other to generate a possible list of marketers I looped through the entire call list of n calls which gives a big O of O(n). However sorting the resulting list(using the builtin sorted method) in order to display it in lexicographic order is an operation with a big O of O(nlogn).
Time Complexity : O(nlogn)
Space Complexity : O(t + c) – Space required to store t texts and c calls in memory. Although other items were store in memory for easy computation in comparison with the text and call list they appear insignificant.
